How could a visitor to the NM campus who was totally
unaware, perhaps, of the difference between,
say, a freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior,
how could he tell what was what without asking
somebody? Freshman wore a fish stripe on his
sleeve, but they usually were pretty easy to
identify anyway. Uh-huh. Sophomore usually was a
corporal in the Corps, had had corporal stripes.
Junior had sergeant stripes, and so forth. At one
point, I think there was a junior pin that was
fairly prevalent on campus, seemingly, that the
juniors could wear. Well, they had freshman pins.
I don't know whether they had sophomore pins or
not, but the freshman I got the concession one year
for selling freshman pins. It was a little gold pin
in the shape of a fish. And it was quite profitable.
Selling the pins, I guess. Yes. But it was an
optional thing then, not everybody wore one.
Yeah. OK. I think you've talked a little bit about
this, but perhaps there are some other things.
What did you do for entertainment and recreation?
Well,
I had no time to engage in too much entertainment
and recreation, but there was the
recreation usually was in the nature of some sort
of horseplay and games
that you played and
intramural activities and so forth. But the truth
is there was very little time for any formal
education. The old YMCA had one
or two pool tables and they weren't used very much.
I think, as I look back on it, that I was so busy with
the things I had to do that I didn't have time to
look for entertainment. But
were there other students who did have more time,
or was it a general rule that almost everybody
worked? No, no, no. There were a good many that
didn't work. Most of them didn't. I would say that
they, in their off time, that they just
fool around. Uh-huh, had a good time in the
dormitory. Okay, what about occasional dances?
Yes, we had some dances that were big occasions on
the campus those days, and
they were well attended. and uh well run i don't
remember ever uh
seeing anybody take a drink of whiskey and that
sort of thing it of course in those days if you got
caught with it you were automatically expelled
and they were very well uh run uh occasions and we
look forward to those dances and uh Most of us would
invite our girl to come and we emptied some of the
dormitories and let the girls stay in the
dormitories. And it was usually a two day occasion
to enjoy. And we had some of the best bands that were
available at that time. And I remember one time we
had Ligon Smith. There's not many people I know
that are old enough to remember Ligon Smith, but it
cost us $800 to get his band down there. I remember
that.
Did the Corps of Cadet officers have any special
privileges not enjoyed by, say, other
upperclassmen? Well, I don't know. They had...
a good deal of delegated authority and sometimes
they felt that they didn't have enough and I'm sure
they did have. They primarily did what then?
Enforce discipline within the armatory? Yes. Did
they assign you extra drill if you were caught
misbehaving? Or did somebody higher up have to
assign that? I don't remember. They issued
demerits. And when you got so many demerits, you
had to work them off. And so the upperclassmen
didn't actually assign the extra work, but the
officers could give you demerits. I see. And that
was for a number of things. If your room was not...
orderly, where you got demerits, if you were late
formation and things like that. Did
you have any favorite instructors or professors
at A&M? Yes, generally speaking I liked them all,
but
I You mentioned Charlie Crawford a while ago.
Charlie Crawford was one of my freshman
instructors, and we established a friendship
that has continued till today. He was one of the
greatest friends I ever had and one of the best
instructors I ever had. And in my freshman year, I
had Dr. Thomas Mayo as my English teacher.
professor and
Dr. Mayo took a special interest and
he organized the debating club and the literary
club and
I did join his literary club for occasional book
reviews and that sort of thing. I didn't have
joined the debating club because I didn't have
time, but Tommy Mayo was also the head librarian,
and I went to work in the library dusting off and
putting up the books at $16 a month and for so many
hours a day, and I've always said that I absorbed a
good deal of knowledge putting up the books in the
library.
Well, I'm interested to hear your comments about
Mr. Crawford because he's one of the retired
professors whom I know quite well, and I find him to
be an interesting and helpful sort of man. 13 years
after I graduated, he persuaded me to enroll for
obtaining
a professional degree, which I don't believe they
still give, but it consisted of enrolling in the
fall, preparing and writing a thesis, and
standing examination at the graduation in the
spring. And I did that. And I have, I think, one of
the few professional degrees. Your
qualifications were a certain amount of
experience before you could enroll for this
degree. But I have kept in touch with Charlie
Crawford all through the years and knew his family
well and admire him very much. The other professor
that I would,
that I recall that I was very fond of was Mr. Brewer.
I've forgotten his initials. He was in the
mechanical engineering department. He first
taught me lab courses, and then in my senior year in
mechanical engineering, we had a group who
elected to specialize in railroad engineering.
And he was an old railroad man before he came to A&M,
and he taught this class. And although it had
nothing to do with my career later on, I enjoyed
this work under Mr. Brewer.
What... Attitudes did the students have towards
the administration, say the president of A&M? Dr.
Brazell, I believe, was president. Dr. Brazell.
Well, their attitude was
both good and bad. Dr.
Brazell had some difficulty in having... had
experience as president of a girls' school and had
some difficulty in getting the viewpoints of the
boys. And there was occasions
when the situation got pretty rough, and the boys
were not always respectful. some of them, and
there was, I guess,
occasions when it looked like we were going to have
a riot and he threatened to close the school down
and that sort of thing. When I first came to A&M
three years ago, I had the impression that Dr.
Brazell was really a top-notch man, And then one of
the other former students, and I've forgotten
just exactly who it was now, but I believe it was Mr.
Height from Austin, brought me an issue of a kind of
an underground student newspaper called The Lung
Bat, which came out in 1924 while Dr. Brazell was
still there. And they complained about all sorts
of things, Charlie Nietzsche's laundry and the
confectionery. And then they had an editorial in
which they sort of said they were complaining
about censorship, I believe, of the newspaper.
And they said that, well, and, you know, the
inability of students being able to get up and say
what they really thought. And they said... that if
you don't believe us, why get up in the middle of the
academic building and say what you think, and then
see, look how long it is till the next train comes
through, and that's how long you'll be here. Well,
we had some of those kind of problems. I really was
very fond of Dr. Brazell, and I remember I even
visited him after we went to Oklahoma University.
He was a learned man and an educator, but he didn't
always know how to best handle a bunch of boys.
Perhaps he really hadn't had the background
experience for handling a bunch of boys of that
size, of that type of school. I think that pretty
well explains it. Were there any new traditions?
Of course, you know, Mr. Colonel Ike Ashburn was
commandant in those days, and He was one of the most
effective men that I've ever known and got to be a
very good friend of mine even up until he died after
he left A&M. But he was the real
strength of the administrative part of the
discipline and administrative part of the
student activities and did a fine job. So would
then maybe the editorial and the long bat been
aimed more at the Colonel Ashburn than at Dr.
Bazell? No, I don't think so. In
those days, it was easier.
You were expelled for things that you wouldn't be
expelled for today, possibly. And hazing was the
biggest reason for expelling the students. And
every time a group would get caught in the act, and
get expelled from school, that would stir the
whole corps up. And that's when these
riotous situations seem to exist. Now, what I was
starting to ask is, were there any new traditions
started while you were a student at A&M? I know
there's lots of things that are carried on today,
such as the bonfire that started well before you
were there, a number of other things. Well, I don't
recall. It just seems to me that The traditions
were there and are still there, maybe somewhat
modified as of today. They were there. I think one
of the ones that I miss most, I did not attend A&M,
but I came to the campus on a number of occasions. I
was in a debating club at Texas Lutheran when I was a
student, and we came to A&M on several occasions
for the debate tournament here. And one of the
things which always impressed me was the friendly
greetings that you got from every student as you
encountered him on the campus. This would have
been in the early 50s. Yes. But you don't get that
today. Well, more so than you do in other schools,
but... Yeah, I think more so than in other schools,
but it's, I think, unfortunately, rapidly dying
out. Well, numbers have something to do with that.
I think there was only about 2,000 students
enrolled when I was there, and I believe I knew the
nickname of most of them. I had a job delivering
telegrams, and... It
was all over the campus. And in my sophomore year, I
had a job at telegrams and library and mess hall.
Three jobs in one year. I had a little excess money
for the first time. Of course, in my senior year, I
had the hamburger stand. That was the famous
hamburger stand. Yes. Could you tell us a little
bit about that hamburger stand? Well, yes. It was
those students who could prove the need for some
help were allowed to draw with others that had been
selected. And I think there must have been about 25
or 30 of us who qualified to draw for the
concession. The one who drew the concession was
permitted to buy the stand from the one who had had
it, not on any negotiated price, but on the same
price that he paid for it. I drew, Colonel Todd was
then a commandant, and we went to his office, and I
had to deal with my roommate, who also qualified to
draw, that you had to have a partner. So then I
selected my partner in advance, and he selected me
in advance. See, one of us got it, we were partners.
So I drew it. Number 25 was a lucky number, and I drew
it out of the hat. Well, I didn't have $250 to pay for
it, and I wasn't old enough to borrow money at the
bank, but I went over to the Brown Bank and
explained my situation, and they said, well, we
will loan you money if you'll get somebody to sign
your note. I went back and talked to Tommy Mayo, and
Tommy said, I'll sign your note. So he signed it,
and I got the $250 and paid for the stand. And then,
incidentally, that $250 paid off before
Thanksgiving that year. But after I went to summer
camp and coming back from summer camp, I stopped at
college and the 4-H Club boys were there. And so I
got Dad Cole, who worked for us and was engaged to
work for us in the stand. We opened up the hamburger
stand and split the profits three ways. We each
made $50 that week, and I had enough money to buy a
railroad ticket back to Dallas when it was over.
Then when we graduated and lost the concession,
the athletic department took over the hamburger
stand. It always before had gone on a concession
basis. Now, that was an experience for me. We sold
hamburgers for 10 cents apiece, bought the ground
meat for 10 cents a pound, and made about 4 or 5 cents
profit on each hamburger. So it was quite
profitable. What all did you put everything on the
hamburger that you put on the day, like lettuce and
tomatoes and onions? No, to me, that doesn't make a
hamburger. That's a sandwich. A hamburger... is
meat, bread, mustard, pickles, and onions. Now,
at present time, they call them hamburgers, but
it's not hamburger to me when they make a sandwich
with lettuce and tomatoes and stuff. So that
hamburger stand had been there for a number of
years, then, I take it, before you got the
concession. It had been there two or three years.
And then you were the last one to have it before the
athletic department took it? Before the athletic
department took it over, yes. Did the people have
to come to your stand to get the hamburger? Yes. You
didn't deliver it to the dormitory? Well, each
evening when I got through and went by, and if there
was meat left over, I'd stay there and cook them up
in hamburgers, and I sent my agents out in the
dormitories and sold them. He gave them 15%
commission. so that I could clean up the supply of
meat every day. Then you had a number of people
working for you, I take it? Yes, I had some student
help. I paid them 25 cents an hour and all the
hamburgers they could eat, which looked like a
good job to them. Okay. Were there any girls in any
of your classes when you were at A&M? No. They
weren't... Prior to, well, I don't know how to time
it. I remember Elaine Bazell graduated from A&M.
She was the first girl, I guess, to get a degree from
A&M. And in a period of time there, and maybe it was
while we were there, the daughters of the
professors could attend the classes on a day
scheduled basis, but I had no girls in my classes.
Uh-huh. It would depend, I take it, probably on the
course that you were taking, whether you... Yes. I
would think you might have had some in a literature
class or something. Yes, maybe so. Well, I think
Mr. Crawford's sister is the one who's usually
given credit as being the first graduate. That
could be. She's now Mrs. Ludeke, I believe. She
finished in 24, but I don't believe she... She
didn't participate in a formal graduation. I
think she got a degree of some sort. Uh-huh. But, of
course, there were some earlier who attended and
completed the courses but didn't get anything.
Yeah.
You mentioned something a little bit earlier
about the training table. Could you tell us a
little bit about what this involved and what other
privileges, say, the athletes had? Well, the food
was very... They had steaks every evening, T-bone
steaks usually, and it was quite an inducement to
become a good athlete and make the training table.
The training table wasn't open to everybody who
went out for athletics. It was just available for
the squad. In other words, by the squad, you mean
this would be the fellows who played football who
made the trips? Well, I don't know. I guess the
limitations changed from time to time. But if they
were active on the squad, they were on the training
table. And they had their own dining room in the
Duncan Hall, Duncan Dining Room in the attached, I
mean, part of Spieser Hall. Uh-huh. Now, if you
played football, were you on the training table
the whole year or just during football season? Or,
well, you could say about, you were on cross
country, I believe, were you not? Yes. You made the
training table. Did you eat at the training table
the whole year or just during the cross country
season? No, I don't believe it was for the whole
year. But they,
I don't recall how it was for the rest of the
athletes. The football people, of course, they
had spring practice, and they had the football
season. And
really, I guess it was, for the football players, a
pretty year-round thing.
Did the athletes have any other privileges? I
mean, were they ever excused from drill or? Not,
they weren't supposed to be. And they lived, when
you were there, they lived with their company.
Yes. This one was assigned to a company and he lived
with the company. That's right. He was in a
separate dorm. Yes. Okay.
Were you on the cross-country team just one year or
more than one? For
one year, I believe, I developed a case of sin
splints. I had to give it up. I wasn't on in my senior
year. I was on my junior year. OK. Well, I think that
sort of covers what I want to talk to you about while
you were at A&M. Now, if time will permit, I'd like
to talk with you some about what you've done since
then. What was your first job? Well, my first job, I
took a job at $100 a month
working for the Continental Gin Company. I only
worked six months for them, and I went to work for
the Lone Star Gas Company, also at $100 a month, but
work that I felt would give me an opportunity to
become an engineer.
But having taken mechanical engineering, I had no
special qualifications in the petroleum field.
But through experience and I obtained
a
reputation or an opportunity to become a
petroleum engineer, and I was the first petroleum
engineer that Lone Star Gas Company had. And I've
been a petroleum engineer ever since and never a
mechanical engineer. Did you take some
additional courses somewhere while you were
working for Lone Star Gas or something? No. Just
experience? Experience. How long did you work for
Lone Star Gas? Thirteen years. Then I came having,
I came to Amarillo to take over the Shamrock Oil and
Gas Corporation. which was about nine years old
and had accumulated a total loss of $9 million. And
I've been here ever since. I was first vice
president and general manager and then president
and then chairman of the board. What year was it
that you came to Diamond, Chairman? 1938,
December 1938.
Are you still chairman of the board? I'm retired
now. I remember before my retirement, we affected
a merger with the Diamond Alkali people, and the
company is now known as the Diamond Shamrock
Company, chemical and oil business. They
complement each other very well. It's a rather
large corporation, going to do nearly a billion
dollars worth of business this year. And I am
still a member of the board of directors, but not
active in the management of the company because of
my retirement. I've been retired five years from
active job. I think we're